# SBOMConvert

The SBOMConvert is a free, open source tool to transform a
SBOM (Software Bill of Materials) into another format. The format supported are various versions of SBOMs in either
[SPDX](https://www.spdx.org) and [CycloneDX](https://www.cyclonedx.org) formats.

SBOMs are supported in the following formats and versions:

| SBOM Type | Version | Format   |
| --------- |---------|----------|
| SPDX      | 2.2     | TagValue | 
| SPDX      | 2.2     | JSON     |
| SPDX      | 2.2     | YAML     |
| SPDX      | 2.2     | RDF      |
| SPDX      | 2.2     | XML      |
| SPDX      | 2.3     | TagValue |
| SPDX      | 2.3     | JSON     |
| SPDX      | 2.3     | YAML     |
| SPDX      | 2.3     | RDF      |
| SPDX      | 2.3     | XML      |
| CycloneDX | 1.4     | JSON     |
| CycloneDX | 1.4     | XML      |
| CycloneDX | 1.5     | JSON     |
| CycloneDX | 1.5     | XML      |
| CycloneDX | 1.6     | JSON     |
| CycloneDX | 1.6     | XML      |

**Note** that support for SPDX RDF and XML formats is limited to a few package attributes.

## Installation

To install use the following command:

`pip install sbomconvert`

Alternatively, just clone the repo and install dependencies using the following command:

`pip install -U -r requirements.txt`

The tool requires Python 3 (3.9+). It is recommended to use a virtual python environment especially
if you are using different versions of python. `virtualenv` is a tool for setting up virtual python environments which
allows you to have all the dependencies for the tool set up in a single environment, or have different environments set
up for testing using different versions of Python.

## Usage

```bash
usage: sbomconvert [-h] [-i INPUT_FILE] [-d] [--sbom {spdx,cyclonedx}] [--format {tag,json,yaml}] [-o OUTPUT_FILE] [-V]

SBOMconvert transforms a Software Bill of Materials from one format to another, or between output formats.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -V, --version         show program's version number and exit

Input:
  -i INPUT_FILE, --input-file INPUT_FILE
                        identity of SBOM

Output:
  -d, --debug           add debug information
  --sbom {spdx,cyclonedx}
                        specify type of sbom to generate (default: spdx)
  --format {tag,json,yaml}
                        specify format of software bill of materials (sbom) (default: tag)
  -o OUTPUT_FILE, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE
                        output filename (default: output to stdout)
```
						
## Operation

The `--input-file` option is used to identify of the SBOM. The tool will automatically detect the type and version of SBOM.

The `--sbom` option is used to specify the format of the generated SBOM (the default is SPDX). The `--format` option
can be used to specify the formatting of the SBOM (the default is Tag Value format for a SPDX SBOM). JSON format is supported for both
SPDX and CycloneDX SBOMs).

The `--output-file` option is used to control the destination of the output generated by the tool. The
default is to report to the console but can be stored in a file (specified using `--output-file` option).

## Licence

Licenced under the Apache 2.0 Licence.

The tool uses a local copy of the [SPDX Licenses List](https://github.com/spdx/license-list-data) which is released under
[Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 (CC-BY-3.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).

## Limitations

The usefulness of the tool is dependent on the SBOM data
which is provided to the tool. Unfortunately, the tool is unable to determine the validity or completeness of such a SBOM file; users of the tool
are therefore reminded that they should assert the quality of any data which is provided to the tool.

Invlaid SBOMs 

When processing and validating licenses, the application will use a set of synonyms to attempt to map some license identifiers to the correct [SPDX License Identifiers](https://spdx.org/licenses/). However, the
user of the tool is reminded that they should assert the quality of any data which is provided by the tool particularly where the license identifier has been modified.

## Feedback and Contributions

Bugs and feature requests can be made via GitHub Issues.
